TITLE
Arsenal complete signing of Newcastle midfielder Bruno Guimaraes | Football News | Al Jazeera

OG_IMAGES
https://www.aljazeera.com/wp-content/uploads/2026/08/getty_6a7713792a-1786188665.jpg?resize=1920%2C1440

TEXT
play        Live        Sign up     Show navigation menu        Navigation menu     News        Show more news sections       Africa      Asia      US & Canada      Latin America      Europe      Asia Pacific         Middle East      Explained      Sport      Opinion      Video     More       Show more sections       Features      Economy      Human Rights      Climate Crisis      Investigations      Interactives      In Pictures      Science & Technology      Podcasts      Travel      Sponsored Content               play        Live         Click here to search   search        Sign up                   Sport | Football    Arsenal complete signing of Newcastle midfielder Bruno Guimaraes   Brazil international signed on a four-year contract with further one-year option for reported fee of about $101m.

Listen (3 mins)           Save

Share

x        whatsapp-stroke          copylink              google             Add Al Jazeera on Google     info             The 28-year-old has built a reputation as one of the league's most complete midfielders, combining defensive solidity with creativity and attacking output [File: Buda Mendes/Getty Images]        By  Reuters      Published On 8 Aug 2026  8 Aug 2026      Arsenal have signed Newcastle ‌United captain  Bruno Guimaraes  on a four-year contract with a further one-year option, the Premier League champions ⁠announced on Saturday.

The North London ⁠club have agreed a deal reported by British media to be worth about 75 million pounds ($101m) for the Brazil international, adding one of the Premier League’s most influential midfielders to Mikel ⁠Arteta’s squad.

“Since the first time I spoke to [Arsenal Sporting Director Andrea] Berta and Mikel, I was excited. I just felt inside of me that I need a new challenge in my life and I think to be an Arsenal player ⁠is going to be an exciting challenge in my life,” Guimaraes said in a statement on the club’s website on Saturday.

“I am so excited to start. We have tough games to play this season, so the squad is going to be very, very important and I’m hopeful we can achieve our dreams.”

The midfielder joined Newcastle from Olympique Lyonnais in January 2022 and quickly established himself ‌as one of the league’s standout performers, playing a central role in the northeast club’s rise over the past three seasons.

He played for Brazil at this year’s World Cup and has been a regular presence in the national team in recent years.

The move comes as another blow for Newcastle following the departures of key players Anthony Gordon and Sandro Tonali, as well as manager Eddie Howe, who stepped down from the role and was replaced by German coach Matthias Jaissle.







Guimaraes’s arrival at The Emirates marks another significant statement of intent from Arsenal ⁠as they seek to retain their  Premier League title  and strengthen their challenge in ⁠Europe.

The 28-year-old has built a reputation as one of the league’s most complete midfielders, combining defensive solidity with creativity and attacking output.

He made 195 appearances for Newcastle in all competitions, scoring 31 goals, and helped them end a long wait for domestic silverware by captaining the side to League ⁠Cup success in 2025.

“As we have all seen, Bruno can play as a defensive midfielder and as a box-to-box player. He combines quality with quantity, and has provided goals ⁠and assists for his team every year,” Berta said.

“Bruno will allow Mikel ⁠to further develop our playing style and will also increase our internal competitiveness, which is essential for maintaining the standards required when we are aiming to win major trophies.”

The Brazilian’s versatility could prove particularly valuable. Equally comfortable operating as a holding midfielder, Guimaraes would offer Arsenal greater tactical flexibility and control.

He ‌adds another elite option to Arteta’s midfield alongside Declan Rice, Martin Zubimendi, Mikel Merino and captain Martin Odegaard.

While increasing competition for places, Guimaraes’s signing will also help Arsenal to manage the workload of key players more effectively, particularly that ‌of Rice, who was a cornerstone of the side last season as they lifted their first league title in 22 years.

Arsenal begin the new campaign at home to promoted Coventry City on August 21.

























Advertisement                 About  About       Show more       About Us      Code of Ethics      Terms and Conditions      EU/EEA Regulatory Notice      Privacy Policy      Cookie Policy      Cookie Preferences        Accessibility Statement      Sitemap      Work for us        Connect  Connect       Show more       Contact Us      User Accounts Help      Advertise with us      Stay Connected      Newsletters      Channel Finder      TV Schedule      Podcasts      Submit a Tip      Paid Partner Content        Our Channels  Our Channels       Show more       Al Jazeera Arabic      Al Jazeera English      Al Jazeera Investigative Unit      Al Jazeera Mubasher      Al Jazeera Documentary      Al Jazeera Balkans      AJ+        Our Network  Our Network       Show more       Al Jazeera Centre for Studies      Al Jazeera Media Institute      Learn Arabic      Al Jazeera Centre for Public Liberties & Human Rights      Al Jazeera Forum      Al Jazeera Hotel Partners           Follow Al Jazeera English: