TITLE
Is football AI-proof? Why tech investors wanted a slice of the World Cup - BBC News

OG_IMAGES
https://ichef.bbci.co.uk/ace/branded_news/1200/cpsprodpb/2700/live/b51ae4b0-91b6-11f1-bab9-173de0e7d358.jpg

TEXT
BBC Homepage        Skip to content    Accessibility Help                             Your account           Home    News    Sport    Earth    Reel    Worklife    Travel    Culture    Future    Music    TV    Weather    Sounds             More menu              More menu             Search BBC             Home    News    Sport    Earth    Reel    Worklife    Travel    Culture    Future    Music    TV    Weather    Sounds            Close menu                     BBC News                   Menu       Home      Climate      World      UK      Business      Tech      Science      Entertainment & Arts      Health      In Pictures             More             BBC Verify      Newsbeat                        Is football AI-proof? Why tech investors wanted a slice of the World Cup                  Image source,  Getty Images    Image caption,    Joshua Kushner runs the investment group behind the plan to buy a minority stake in the World Cup

Fifa has been forced to U-turn on plans to sell off a slice of the World Cup after fierce opposition, with threats of future boycotts and calls for the governing body's president, Gianni Infantino, to quit.

But why were a group of tech investors interested in the World Cup in the first place, and are similar proposals in the future inevitable?

In a world in which AI could upend human recreation and pastimes, executives at Thrive Eternal, a spin-off of venture capital firm Thrive Capital, saw an opportunity to lead a group of investors to place cash in the biggest sporting competition on the planet.

The football World Cup was seen as the latest in a new strategy from firm, which believes that sport will not only survive the AI revolution, but grow in value.

Run by Joshua Kushner, the brother of US Donald Trump's son-in-law and adviser Jared, Thrive mainly invests in technology companies developing artificial intelligence (AI) and it has been a major financial backer of Open AI.

But in April this year, the New York City-based entity created the new investment arm Thrive Eternal in order to invest in areas that have "qualities that cannot be replicated by technology".

Sport is central to that strategy, and that is where football - and securing a minority stake in the World Cup under Fifa's proposed Forward Enterprise (FFE), - became an opportunity.

The view is that the tradition, cultural and identity aspects of football will protect the sport from being upended by AI compared with other forms of entertainment such as movies and music, which are already seeing the technology start to replace humans.

Professor Simon Chadwick has worked in the global sports industry for 30 years, including working with both fan groups, football clubs and governing bodies Fifa and Uefa.

He said investment interests and commercialisation in general meant a lot of decisions were being made on behalf of football and fans "in Wall Street and Silicon Valley".

"It is almost as though it's crept up on us and a lot of people haven't really thought about what's happening," he told the BBC.

While it raised governance questions for Fifa, he added: "Whether people like it or not, private equity investment in sport is happening."

Uefa says boycott may still go ahead as FA withdraws Infantino support

Published    1 day ago               Faisal Islam: Four reasons why Fifa's World Cup plan never stacked up

Published    7 days ago                  Despite this summer's World Cup, hosted by the US, Canada and Mexico, providing an clear picture of World Cup commercialisation, the BBC understands talks over the FFE proposal involving Thrive started last year, with former Disney chief executive Bob Iger hired as an adviser.

Thrive Eternal already invests in other sports. As part of its launch, it announced it had agreed to buy a chunk of the San Francisco Giants baseball team There are also reports the firm is eyeing up a bid for new NBA franchise in Las Vegas.

It believes that such "iconic franchises and cultural institutions rooted in tradition, identity, and shared experience" will not just survive the AI revolution, but "will matter even more", according to its website.

Kushner and Thrive Eternal have remained silent on the Fifa investment plan and the subsequent fallout.

But a source close to the firm told the BBC the strategy behind the plan, which would have required the backing of Fifa's member associations, was that it would not be like a "typical investment fund looking for a speedy return on investment".

The source said investors preparing to stump up the $4.2bn (£3.1bn) initial investment were doing so with the view of not seeing any return for a "long period of time - decades", due to Thrive Eternal being structured as a holding company.

They higlighted had the FFE proposal been activated, it would have given each member association a stake worth as much as $91m each based on its $20bn valuation - stressing that the equity would be controlled by Fifa, not investors, and that the decision would have been down to individual member associations.

"The idea of outside investment...was to channel more resources upfront to countries that wouldn't typically get access to outside funding - so they could invest in things like stadiums and training to be able to develop their game domestically," the source said.

According to Fifa, the aim of FFE was "to separate the business of football from the governance of the sport".

In England, the business of football has exploded, especially since the establishment of the Premier League, so much so that the financial rules, transfer deals and boardroom gossip have become just as popular conversation topics between fans as the action on the pitch.

US investment in football is not new, and the amount of American dollars being poured into English and other European clubs has been growing broadly since the Glazer family bought Manchester United more than two decades ago.

But some question where Fifa - and the World Cup - needed this cash injection.

Fifa has claimed the World Cup is "under-monetised", but hydration break adverts, dynamic ticket pricing and record broadcast and sponsorship rights have put the 2026 edition on track to generate record revenues.

The 48-team tournament and potential for an even bigger 64-team competition gives a view of further commercial opportunities. More countries equal more viewers, which equals more money.

Christina Philippou, an associate professor in accounting and sport finance at the University of Portsmouth, said the approach by Fifa to seek outward investment had been seen in other sports and by individual football clubs when cash flow had been a problem.

"Fifa are not in a position where they are desperate for money. In fact, they could very easily, with the money they already have, increase those payouts to the member associations. So there is no need to go external."

Thrive Eternal is understood to respect the decision to take the plan off the table, but it is clear that interest, with or not this specific investment group, remains focused on football.

Watch our pick of standout clips from across the BBC

Previous          Next                   0:28  'Very painful': Hunter Biden on father's cancer update. 00:00:28, play video  'Very painful': Hunter Biden on father's cancer update                          0:34  Up, up and away: Timelapse shows mass balloon ascent. 00:00:34, play video  Up, up and away: Timelapse shows mass balloon ascent                          1:17  The tech that could map every tree on earth. 00:01:17, play video  The tech that could map every tree on earth                          0:59  Could the UK be on the brink of a food shortage? 00:00:59, play video  Could the UK be on the brink of a food shortage?                          1:07  Riding England's longest zip wire. 00:01:07, play video  Riding England's longest zip wire                          1:21  How many different cubes can you make? 00:01:21, play video  How many different cubes can you make?                          2:01  Simon Levy found guilty of double murder and rape. 00:02:01, play video  Simon Levy found guilty of double murder and rape                          1:02  Families' anger at funeral boss's apology letter. 00:01:02, play video  Families' anger at funeral boss's apology letter                          1:17  What we know about the Thailand school shooting. 00:01:17, play video  What we know about the Thailand school shooting                          0:48  Why did a brief power cut cause train chaos in Manchester? 00:00:48, play video  Why did a brief power cut cause train chaos in Manchester?                          0:53  Are you hung up on hangers? 00:00:53, play video  Are you hung up on hangers?                          0:52  Sydney Towle's message was "to treat people with kindness" 00:00:52, play video  Sydney Towle's message was "to treat people with kindness"                          0:31  The Clacton by-election ballot paper is... how long? 00:00:31, play video  The Clacton by-election ballot paper is... how long?                          0:43  Earthquake shakes hospital operating room in Japan. 00:00:43, play video  Earthquake shakes hospital operating room in Japan                          0:33  Moment raiders drive car into service station. 00:00:33, play video  Moment raiders drive car into service station                          1:11  'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics' 00:01:11, play video  'I was addicted to porn while training for the Olympics'                          0:39  How much rain will end the drought? 00:00:39, play video  How much rain will end the drought?                          1:43  Stairlift salesman offers pills for cancer treatment. 00:01:43, play video  Stairlift salesman offers pills for cancer treatment                          0:44  Why Uefa could still boycott the World Cup. 00:00:44, play video  Why Uefa could still boycott the World Cup                          1:00  What is 'food noise'? 00:01:00, play video  What is 'food noise'?                         Top stories            Widdecombe police reopen investigation into incident at Farage's home, BBC understands

Simon Levy victims urged to come forward as police accused of 'litany of failures'

The phone book that led us to Assad's spy chief in hiding

I went for a full body MOT and the results came as a shock

Pokémon hobby takes brothers to world championships

'We had to flee with just my daughter's clothes and dolls'

Obesity rates have doubled in England since 1993 - what's going on?

The 101-year-old who created a dolls' house museum with her childhood toys

Artist's 'anger and frustration' with internet copycats

The 'education gap' hiding behind picture-perfect Cornwall and Devon

How a diary entry solved the murder of a missing man

Get news, tips and ideas for your family with our Summer Essential newsletter

With great power comes great responsibility

She's not a bad girl anymore, wink wink wink wink

Can a test tell you what's living inside your gut?

How much discipline is too much in school?

I went for a full body MOT and the results came as a shock

Widdecombe police reopen investigation into incident at Farage's home, BBC understands

Strictly dancers Ola and James Jordan separate after 23 years of marriage

Woman attacked by bed bugs during Travelodge stay

He's been frozen on Everest for 30 years, now 'Green Boots' may finally be coming home

Hunter Biden tells BBC his pardon was 'not good' for America or his father's legacy

Digital cameras and wired earphones are back - and 'a bit more real'

Airport disruption a 'shambles' as flights restart

Spain imposes border controls against Italy as row over Ceuta migrant influx intensifies

How a former GB Olympian curbed his porn problem - and the signs and steps to recovery

On your mobile          On smart speakers          Get news alerts          Contact BBC News           Home    News    Sport    Earth    Reel    Worklife    Travel    Culture    Future    Music    TV    Weather    Sounds        Terms of Use    About the BBC    Privacy Policy    Cookies    Accessibility Help    Parental Guidance    Contact the BBC    BBC emails for you    Advertise with us     Copyright © 2026 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.  Read about our approach to external linking.