TITLE
Drones spotted in Bulgaria and Germany raise concerns of Russian escalation | NATO News | Al Jazeera

OG_IMAGES
https://www.aljazeera.com/wp-content/uploads/2026/08/afp_6a73478b20c8-1785939851.jpg?resize=1920%2C1440

TEXT
play        Live        Sign up     Show navigation menu        Navigation menu     News        Show more news sections       Africa      Asia      US & Canada      Latin America      Europe      Asia Pacific         Middle East      Explained      Sport      Opinion      Video     More       Show more sections       Features      Economy      Human Rights      Climate Crisis      Investigations      Interactives      In Pictures      Science & Technology      Podcasts      Travel      Sponsored Content               play        Live         Click here to search   search        Sign up                Navigation menu    caret-left           Russia-Ukraine war       Is the war entering a new phase?      Starving on the front lines      Four years of war      Zelenskyy’s open letter to Putin        caret-right                   News | NATO    Drones spotted in Bulgaria and Germany raise concerns of Russian escalation   The drone incidents in Europe have ignited fears that Moscow’s war on Kyiv is now entangling NATO nations.

Listen (3 mins)           Save

Share

x        whatsapp-stroke          copylink              google             Add Al Jazeera on Google     info             A forensic technician works at the Leipzig-Halle airport in Schkeuditz, eastern Germany, after an explosives-laden drone was found near a Ukrainian cargo plane [AFP]        By  AFP  and  Reuters      Published On 8 Aug 2026  8 Aug 2026      A drone has exploded in Bulgaria near the Trans-Balkan gas pipeline, the latest in a surge of unidentified unmanned aerial vehicles entering European territory as regional tensions escalate due to Russia’s ongoing  war  in Ukraine.

Bulgarian Prime Minister Rumen Radev said on Saturday the drone exploded near the Romanian border and the gas pipeline, which links Turkiye to Ukraine.

“The drone exploded in the immediate vicinity of the Kardam border crossing with Romania,” he said in a video released by the government, noting that it took place about a kilometre (0.62 miles) from the Trans-Balkan gas pipeline’s compressor station.

“There were no casualties,” Radev added.

Separately, a spokesperson for Germany’s armed forces said on Saturday that two drones were spotted at about 10pm (20:00 GMT) on Thursday at a military base in Mechernich in the state of North Rhine-Westphalia, some 35km (22 miles) from the Belgian border.

The spokesperson said military personnel have since been deployed to the spot and added that German police are also investigating.

German media have reported that the Bundeswehr site in Mechernich has a high-security underground storage facility for equipment and spare parts for military hardware and is a base for personnel responsible for the maintenance of US Patriot air defence systems.

A drone was also discovered late on Tuesday at Leipzig/Halle Airport, a civilian freight and NATO logistics hub. It was found near several Ukrainian Antonov An-124 cargo airplanes, according to German media reports.

The drone incidents across the continent have revived concerns about Moscow’s war on Ukraine entangling neighbouring NATO states.

It has also intensified debate about whether strategic members of the military alliance such as Germany are ready to cope with new security threats.

German government officials have not blamed any foreign countries publicly for this week’s drone incidents, but some politicians have accused Russia, which has been at war with Ukraine since its military invasion of the country in 2022.

NATO and European Union officials have, however,  blamed  Russia for past drone sightings.

In July, after a suspected Russian drone was spotted over NATO member Romania’s airspace, the European Commission  said  it showed Russia’s war had “crossed yet another line”.

NATO chief Mark Rutte has said Moscow’s “reckless behaviour is a danger to us all”. United States ambassador to NATO, Matthew Whitaker, has pledged the alliance will “defend every inch” of its territory.

Russia has rejected such claims.

On Friday, the Russian embassy in Berlin dismissed the Leipzig event as a “fabricated provocation”, saying it was another example of accusations against Russia without evidence.



















Advertisement                 About  About       Show more       About Us      Code of Ethics      Terms and Conditions      EU/EEA Regulatory Notice      Privacy Policy      Cookie Policy      Cookie Preferences        Accessibility Statement      Sitemap      Work for us        Connect  Connect       Show more       Contact Us      User Accounts Help      Advertise with us      Stay Connected      Newsletters      Channel Finder      TV Schedule      Podcasts      Submit a Tip      Paid Partner Content        Our Channels  Our Channels       Show more       Al Jazeera Arabic      Al Jazeera English      Al Jazeera Investigative Unit      Al Jazeera Mubasher      Al Jazeera Documentary      Al Jazeera Balkans      AJ+        Our Network  Our Network       Show more       Al Jazeera Centre for Studies      Al Jazeera Media Institute      Learn Arabic      Al Jazeera Centre for Public Liberties & Human Rights      Al Jazeera Forum      Al Jazeera Hotel Partners           Follow Al Jazeera English: