TITLE
Messi will decide when he retires, says Argentina FA chief | Football News | Al Jazeera

OG_IMAGES
https://www.aljazeera.com/wp-content/uploads/2026/08/2026-07-19T224207Z_799602868_UP1EM7J1R25CK_RTRMADP_3_SOCCER-WORLDCUP-ESP-ARG-1786176870.jpg?resize=1920%2C1440

TEXT
play        Live        Sign up     Show navigation menu        Navigation menu     News        Show more news sections       Africa      Asia      US & Canada      Latin America      Europe      Asia Pacific         Middle East      Explained      Sport      Opinion      Video     More       Show more sections       Features      Economy      Human Rights      Climate Crisis      Investigations      Interactives      In Pictures      Science & Technology      Podcasts      Travel      Sponsored Content               play        Live         Click here to search   search        Sign up                   Sport | Football    Messi will decide when he retires, says Argentina FA chief   Retirement rumours surrounded Lionel Messi at last two World Cups, but Argentina FA chief says decision will be his.

Listen (3 mins)           Save

Share

x        whatsapp-stroke          copylink              google             Add Al Jazeera on Google     info             Lionel Messi with Argentine Football Association President Claudio Tapia during the World Cup 2026 trophy presentation [Lee Smith/Reuters]        By  Reuters      Published On 8 Aug 2026  8 Aug 2026      Especially after witnessing what Lionel Messi ‌was still capable of at this summer’s World Cup, the president of the Argentine ⁠Football Association is ⁠not rushing the all-time great out the door.

Claudio “Chiqui” Tapia said in an interview on Argentinian TV that Messi is the only person making the decision on when to ⁠hang up his boots.

“It’s a decision that is purely and personally his,” Tapia said. “You have to let him relax. In 2022, we didn’t know if ⁠he’d play in 2026. He said it was game by game, and I think we’ve seen a great version – if not the best – of Leo in a World Cup.

“You have to let him keep enjoying playing football and after that he’ll make the decision he feels is the right ‌one.”

Messi, who turned 39 on June 24 – two days after scoring a brace against Austria in World Cup group-stage play – has given no indication when he might retire from international football or how much longer he intends to play for Inter Miami in the MLS.

As Tapia pointed out, the 2026 tournament was no guarantee after Messi led Argentina to the 2022 title over France in Qatar. Messi, however, played some of his best football ⁠this summer, compiling eight goals and four assists for La Albiceleste.

Argentina  lost ⁠1-0  to Spain in extra time in the World Cup final last month in the United States.

Messi became the first person to break Miroslav Klose’s career scoring record of 16 goals; French superstar Kylian Mbappe ended the tournament ⁠with 22 goals to pass Messi by one.

“It was a great World Cup from Leo,” Tapia said. “We enjoyed it a lot, and we’ve ⁠got to feel proud. I enjoyed every moment. Without ⁠a doubt, he was the standard-bearer of this group in the World Cup.

“If you analyse the World Cup he had, for me he was the best player. He was break records match after match.”

Messi would turn 43 during the 2030 World Cup to be held in Spain, Portugal and Morocco. Argentina, Uruguay and Paraguay also will host one match apiece as part of the centennial celebration.

The oldest non-goalkeeper to ‌appear ‌in a World Cup match was Cameroonian forward Roger Milla at 42 years and 39 days old, according to FIFA.

Another all-time great, Cristiano Ronaldo of Portugal, suited up this summer at age 41.

Argentina are set to play their next matches in the international window between September 21-29. No opponent has been announced for the likely two friendlies that will be played.

There has been speculation that the next home game for the Argentinians could be Messi’s last.

As Copa America champions, Argentina will defend their 2024 crown in 2028, but no host nation has yet been announced for the continental competition.



















Advertisement                 About  About       Show more       About Us      Code of Ethics      Terms and Conditions      EU/EEA Regulatory Notice      Privacy Policy      Cookie Policy      Cookie Preferences        Accessibility Statement      Sitemap      Work for us        Connect  Connect       Show more       Contact Us      User Accounts Help      Advertise with us      Stay Connected      Newsletters      Channel Finder      TV Schedule      Podcasts      Submit a Tip      Paid Partner Content        Our Channels  Our Channels       Show more       Al Jazeera Arabic      Al Jazeera English      Al Jazeera Investigative Unit      Al Jazeera Mubasher      Al Jazeera Documentary      Al Jazeera Balkans      AJ+        Our Network  Our Network       Show more       Al Jazeera Centre for Studies      Al Jazeera Media Institute      Learn Arabic      Al Jazeera Centre for Public Liberties & Human Rights      Al Jazeera Forum      Al Jazeera Hotel Partners           Follow Al Jazeera English: